hi is Barney from BBC good food and I'm
going to be making in my opinion the
best homemade the cure there is a slogan
so these are slows right there basically
wild plums and they look like little
damsons
and you can pick them along the hedgerow
from September up until November they're
widely available but please please
please get a decent foraging book and
don't ever pick anything you're unsure
off traditional recipe will say to
either pick the slows off the first
Frost's have been around October or to
prick the slows with a needle or
toothpick and both reasons are to spit
the skin but you can just cheat the
frost by popping the slows in the
freezer overnight basic quantities for a
liter of gin is 500 grams of slows and
250 grams of sugar so it's very easy a
liter of gin 500 250 and here's 500
grams of slow switch with frozen
overnight and we just need to tip those
into a jar and now we need to add our
sugar to the slows here I've got 250
grams of white castor sugar and now it's
just a matter of pouring over your gin
now you just want to seal your jar and
then you want to give the jar a good
shake now we're going to leave this in
the cool dark place but your kitchen
cupboard for about three months for the
first week you want to give it a shake
every day until the sugars dissolved and
after that give it a shake every week or
so here's a batch we made three months
ago that just needs filtering so you can
see the color differences immense is
taking on that beautiful purple color of
the slows and now it's just a matter of
bottling it the easiest way of doing
this is taking the slow gin with the
slows in into a jug and then filtering
it into a bottle now it's just a matter
of filtering this into a very clean
bottle with a funnel through a muslin
I'm using muslin here or you could use a
coffee filter paper
so that's all our slow Jen filtered so
they actually slow Gin and it's ready to
drink now but the longer you keep it the
better the flavors gonna get honestly
keep four years and the flavor just
improves here's a jar made at home three
years ago I'm sippin away up slowly and
the flavor just gets better and better
now as well as drinking it on its own
you can also put it in something called
a forager Spears which is literally a
splash of slow Jim some champagne or
some Prosecco or it also makes a
delicious flavored gin and tonic now if
you don't like gin exactly the same
method applies to making slow vodka and
that's how you make slow Gin from being
finger food
[Music]